Add Platform newsletter's October edition (#1805)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/news/platform/platform-2023-10.md

**Contributed by:** @rgrinberg (Tarides), @Leonidas-from-XIV (Tarides), @gridbugs (Tarides), @kit-ty-kate (Tarides), @Alizter

**Why:** Unify OCaml tooling under a single command line for all development workflows. This addresses one of the most important pain points [reported by the community](https://www.dropbox.com/s/omba1d8vhljnrcn/OCaml-user-survey-2020.pdf?dl=0).

**What:** Prototyping the integration of package management into Dune by using opam as a library. We're adding a new `dune pkg lock` command to generate a lock file and extend `dune build` to support downloading and building dependencies specified in the lock file. Read the [Dune RFC](https://github.com/ocaml/dune/issues/7680) for more details.

**Activities:**
- We reworked the storage for opam repositories. We now have support for multiple repositories, which we store and update in an efficient manner. -- [ocaml/dune#8950](https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/8950)
- We introduced the `$ dune pkg outdated` command to view all the outdated packages in a lock directory. -- [ocaml/dune#8773](https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/8773)

> - We introduced `$ dune describe pkg lock` to print lock directories. This gives users a nice overview of what’s available in the build plan in the lock directory. -- [ocaml/dune#8841](https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/8841)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We introduced `$ dune describe pkg lock` to print lock directories. This gives users a nice overview of what’s available in the lock directory's build plan. -- [ocaml/dune#8841](https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/8841)
```

Would this work? It removes an extra preposition phrase, making the sentence flow better (if it's correct!)

**Activities:**
- Not much to report on this month. More to come for the November update (finalisation of `setenv` and release of opam 2.2 alpha3).

## **[`odoc`]** Add Search Capabilities to `odoc` ([W25](https://ocaml.org/docs/platform-roadmap#w25-generate-documentation))

**Contributed by:** @panglesd (Tarides), @EmileTrotignon (Tarides), @julow (Tarides), @jonludlam (Tarides)

**Why:** The in-package search added in OCaml.org's central package documentation has been very well received by the community and improves how users navigate and discover OCaml documentation. We're upstreaming it to `odoc` to bring it into the local documentation as well and provide more advanced features, like searching by type.

**What:** We're adding support in `odoc` for pluging in a search engine! `odoc` provides the UI (a search bar) and will generate a search index (that can also be used to be integrated into other search engine like Elasticsearch). We're also building a default client-side search engine based on Sherlodoc.

**Activities:**
- We've merged the PR adding [new search capabilities](https://github.com/ocaml/odoc/pull/972)! :tada: This will ship in the upcoming version of `odoc` 2.4.0.

> - We are currently experimenting with building an `odoc` search engine based on [Sherlocode](https://github.com/art-w/sherlodoc) --[art-w/sherlodoc#4](https://github.com/art-w/sherlodoc/pull/4).

Reviewer: Should this be "Sherlocode" or "Sherlodoc"? Although it says Sherlocode, it links to Sherlodoc. 
Just checking if that was intentional.

Author: ```suggestion
- We are currently experimenting with building an `odoc` search engine based on [Sherlodoc](https://github.com/art-w/sherlodoc) --[art-w/sherlodoc#4](https://github.com/art-w/sherlodoc/pull/4).
```

## **[`odoc`]** Syntax for Images and Assets in `odoc` ([W25](https://ocaml.org/docs/platform-roadmap#w25-generate-documentation))

**Contributed by:** @panglesd (Tarides), @jonludlam (Tarides), @dbuenzli, @gpetiot (Tarides)

**Why:** Allow package authors to write rich documentation, making it more useful and improving OCaml developer experience by providing an ecosystem of high-quality documentation for OCaml packages.

**What:** We're adding support for assets and new syntax to embed medias (images, audio, and videos).

**Activities:**
- We've decided to rework the asset support design a little to bring it more in line with how other elements are handled, such as modules, types, and values. The intent is to ensure the code is straightforward to maintain in the long term. -- [ocaml/odoc#1002](https://github.com/ocaml/odoc/pull/1002)

> - We continued reviewing the PR adding syntactic support for media. There were some good discussions relating to missing assets, and it looks to be in good shape to go in once the assets PR is merged. -- [ocaml/odoc#1005](https://github.com/ocaml/odoc/pull/1005)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We continued reviewing the PR, adding syntactic support for media. There were some good discussions relating to missing assets, and it's ready to go in once the assets PR is merged. -- [ocaml/odoc#1005](https://github.com/ocaml/odoc/pull/1005)
```

Even if you don't like the rewrite or it's just inaccurate, the comma must go before "adding" in the first sentence.
